and as we've been reporting Hezbollah
Fighters have shelled territory under
Israeli occupation with mortar strikes
Israel has fired artillery following
that shabal Farms is situated along the
border between Lebanon and Syria's
Golden Heights which was occupied by
Israel in
1967 Zur joins us now live from Southern
Lebanon let's start with the location
where hasah fired upon how significant
is it that it chose the Shabah Farms
rather than an area in the South along
the border with
Israel well yes hasbalah treading
carefully trying to avoid a wider
confrontation but sending a message to
the Israelis that we are here we are
ready uh to join the fight Shiba is a
territory that is occupied by Israel
seen by Lebanon as its own territory so
Hezbollah saying that this is a
legitimate fight but in its statement
also saying that it is showing
solidarity with the Palestinian people
who are fighting the Israelis and a
short while ago a high ranking Hezbollah
official really made the group's
position even clearer he said that we
are not staying neutral in this conflict
in his words today we sent a message
through the attack that was carried out
in Shiba and this Israel should
understand this clearly and in its in
his words Israel and the United States
should stop this stupidity that was the
word that they Ed Stop This stupidity or
else the whole region will be involved
in this war so basically saying that uh
the equation that Hezbollah has
established uh unifying the fronts of
the different Lebanese armed groups as
as well as Palestinian armed groups part
of the so-called axis of resistance will
come together and uh wage this this this
war together so this is the message
coming from Hezbollah at the moment
there is a cautious calm along the
border just behind me uh on top of that
Hill is the Israeli position that was
targeted in the early hours of the
morning Zena what is the bottom line for
many people who I'm sure have the
question on their minds are we going to
see a repeat of the 2006 W is this
escalating in the south of
Lebanon people are worried many Lebanese
are worried because that was a
devastating War more than a month in
2006 between Israel and Hezbollah and
that's why Hezbollah knows that it has
domestic political opponents uh and many
people here will say this country cannot
afford a war the state is nearly uh
bankrupt and there is a dire economic
crisis now in its fourth year and
there's also a political crisis where
there is no president there is no
functioning government uh there is a
need for billions of dollars to revive
the economy and many people believe that
Hezbollah should not act on its own it
should respect the state sovereignty it
should not be the one who decides
whether this country is at war or peace
and many accuse the group of being an
arm of Iran and implementing Iran's
policy the group does not hide away of
or shy away from the fact that it is it
is backed by Iran and it receives
funding from Iran so this is definitely
um hezbollah's involvement in this war
will definitely uh divide the society
even further and deepen uh the political
crisis in the country all right thank
you so much well Nimrod gorin is joining
us now from West Jerusalem he's a senior
fellow for Israeli Affairs at the Middle
East Institute good to have you with us
so first of all how much of a failure
how politically compromising is this for
the Israeli
government the Israeli discussion is
still dealing with the security rather
than with the political because we are
experiencing a security event that is
unprecedented in Israel history very
different than previous escalations or
Cycles with Warfare with g
at this time it was not an evolving
crisis out of any Israeli action it was
out of the blue targeting civilians
large losses still ongoing many being
captive so I think the Israeli Focus now
is in how to solve the current security
situation and deal with the politics
later you say out of the blue but let me
read to you here a statement by the
Secretary General of Amnesty
International dated October the 7th
where from what she's saying it doesn't
seem out of the blue she references the
need for the Israeli government to
refrain from inciting violence tension
in the occupied West Bank she calls for
the root causes of the violence to be
addressed and goes on to list the 16y
yearlong illegal blockade on Gaza and
ending other aspects of quote Israel's
system of apartheid opposed on all
Palestinians do you think that this
might shift Israeli thinking somewhere
to start thinking about dealing with the
root
causes
I think those are different things
because you know we know the Israel
Palestinian conflict is longlasting and
it has different attitudes towards it in
different approaches there are different
reports mentioning different situation
but reality is bad reality is bad for
the Palestinians under occupation it's
bad for Israelis who do not enjoy peace
with their neighbors and this is ongoing
and we saw lots of escalation along the
way and lots of efforts to resolve the
conflict which usually did not succeed
when I mention out of the blue I
referring to the immediate situation
prior to yesterday attack if you recall
previous Cycles in Gaza usually there
were either assassinations or Rockets
toward the nearby vill in Gaza it was
something that went on we have it may
not have been very reported in all parts
of the press but we have been covering
uh incidents of Israeli actions in the
alaka mamos compound which the
Palestinians and Palestinian factions
even in Gaza are warning that this is
very provocative we've seen a rise in
settler attacks which we've covered
extensively has this do you think this
is not in the Israeli public opinion is
not part of the story of why these
people are breaking out of 16 years of
Siege and going on this kind of attack
into into
Israel what I'm saying is that this
incident has happened even before
remember before Ramadan of this year
there were T in AA there were several
rounds of escalation with the PJ butan
Islamic Jihad based on similar issues so
the core issues of the conflict is
definitely there the practicalities of
how this conflict is handled have been
managed differently until what happened
yesterday so this is why what is
happening is is different okay the
reality is there and we do not nobody's
denying it but what is happening is very
different than before and the type of
action has been taken yesterday against
Israeli civilians is a scope that never
happens so there is ways to do the
Warfare I think what we saw yesterday it
is a reminds that cres all of those
lines and enters a new reality again
without denying the difficult situation
isra and Palestinians are living at
during the last decad actually given the
large number of Israeli casualties so
far do you think that this government
this Israeli government is going to be
under intense pressure now to make not
only the very intense and and bloody air
strikes which have cost a lot of
Palestinian civilian lives but a ground
defensive as well do do you kind of feel
like there's no way out now for this
Israeli government other than going with
a ground offensive into
Gaza I think it's difficult to
anticipate and it's not necessarily that
one solution will be taken over the
other we do not know I think currently
the the goal is to prevent the fighting
to continue within Israeli territory
there are still incidents ongoing within
the Israeli borders I think there is a
strong will to take action against the
military wing of Hamas there is a
willingness to prevent further
escalation into other areas you know we
spoke before about Leon in your report
these are things that Israel is not
interested in so I think that's what
we'll see in the coming future whatever
tactics will be used to achieve that I
think it's difficult for us to
anticipate if Israel does launch a
ground offensive where does it go to
next it doesn't really link to the
ground offensive because the political
or the Strategic goal of such a cycle of
violence should be the same whatever
tactic is being operated yes what the
Prime Minister said is about taking a
price from the Hamas and losing having
to lose its military
capacity that doesn't mean that this
goal could be achieved only by one mean
of action or the other so I would say
the tactic that is being used is
unrelated to the overall goal and these
two things can be discussed in parallel
has it been a surp has the capabilities
of Hamas come as a surprise launching an
attack like this by land by air and so
on
on yes what happened was a surprise you
know there were discussions in the past
seeing this as a scenario that Kamas
would like to see happening so I think
the sense of surprise is about the
actual implementation of this scenario
the ability it was made possible and
happened so it's not only the surprise
from Kamas it's also the surprise of how
Isel was expected to be able to deal
with such a situation and prevent it and
this didn't happen and it does relate
also to political discussions within
Israel that happened throughout the last
month about where the focus of this
government was and whether it was on the
right issues that served the best Israel
is interest all right thank you very
much for your analysis on that
appreciate your time nimrod goren